MY BUDDY - TEAM PILOT

A Windows-first, private attention portal and native Copilot session bridge.
This is a source release, not a standalone EXE or an always-on cloud service.
Use only on approved devices with data your organization permits you to process.

QUICK START
1. Clone the source repository to a permanent folder you own:
       git clone https://github.com/Azure/MyBuddy.git
       cd MyBuddy
   If using a clean release ZIP instead, extract it first; do not run inside it.
2. Open PowerShell 7.2 or newer in that folder and run:
       .\Setup-Buddy.ps1
3. Follow the generated Scout-Setup.txt in your own Microsoft Scout.
4. Open the portal:
       .\Start-BuddyPortal.ps1 -Open
5. In Scout, run your new daily scan automation using Run now for the first scan.

AUTOMATION-FREE PRECHECK
For unattended configuration, copy distribution\setup.answers.example.json to
setup.answers.json and fill your own values. Run:
    .\Setup-Buddy.ps1 -Doctor -AnswersFile .\setup.answers.json
    .\Setup-Buddy.ps1 -NonInteractive -AnswersFile .\setup.answers.json
The first command is read-only. The second creates the same four personal files
as interactive setup; it does not register a schedule. Use -CreateDesktopShortcut
only when you want a new shortcut. Get-Help .\Setup-Buddy.ps1 -Full lists options.

Setup checks prerequisites and creates your personal configuration. It does not
copy the author's account, work inventory, credentials, native sessions or media.
It does not install software, change CLI permissions, sign you in, start a scan,
or register a Scout automation behind your back. Review its output before running
any task. Existing personal configuration is never overwritten.

PREREQUISITES
- Windows and PowerShell 7.2 or newer.
- Node.js 22 or newer; the development runtime is Node.js 24.
- Git, Azure CLI for Azure DevOps reads, and GitHub CLI if enabling GitHub.
- GitHub Copilot CLI with native session and extension SDK support.
  Buddy currently uses experimental extension support for the approved first
  prompt. An incompatible CLI installation is a blocker, not a hidden fallback.
- Windows Terminal is recommended for named shared-window tabs.
- Your own Microsoft Scout access and Microsoft 365 sign-in.
- Your own repository access, local checkouts, Copilot entitlement, model access,
  and installed/authenticated MCP servers or custom agents.

Follow your organization's approved installation and authentication procedures.
Azure DevOps uses your Azure CLI identity in the configured tenant; GitHub uses
your GitHub CLI identity. Scout uses your own Microsoft 365 permissions. Neither
being installed nor being listed in Doctor proves authentication is complete.
Do not share PATs, keys, tokens, Copilot profiles or somebody else's folder IDs.

PERSONAL CONFIGURATION
buddy.config.json selects your source scope, tenant, identity and schedule intent.
buddy.agent.json selects your checkouts, CLI command/profile and terminal defaults.
The example files are templates, not working accounts. The initial pilot supports
an Azure DevOps repository, with optional explicit GitHub configuration. Additional
repositories/checkouts can be added after reviewing the two JSON files.
An explicitly disabled GitHub source makes no GitHub API reads; it does not
advance a scan checkpoint or remove previously stored GitHub work.

The email scope defaults to Inbox/Important. Scout must resolve the exact folder
in YOUR mailbox before scanning it; no fallback to the entire inbox or mailbox.
Unknown folder identity is a setup blocker. Documents are discovered from
Important notifications and Teams chat requests, not a tenant-wide document audit.

The initial default handler is Default CLI. Installed XFE-* agents are offered
where available; no team agent is bundled. Checkouts select working folders,
not branches. Buddy never switches branches or creates worktrees automatically.
Distinct sessions sharing a checkout share its files and active branch; enable
concurrent sessions only if you are prepared to coordinate those changes.
Setup defaults to native consent, interactive mode and the ordinary context
window. The proposed model is claude-opus-4.8; choose an entitled model during
setup if your account does not have it. Setup reports capabilities, not entitlement.

HOW SCOUT AUTOMATION WORKS
Every teammate needs their own one daily/on-demand automation, installed through
Scout's supported automation features after reviewing the generated instructions.
Copying this folder or changing schedule.enabled does NOT register an automation.
Do not reuse another person's automation ID. Do not edit Scout's private database
or use undocumented IPC as an automation registration/trigger shortcut.

The machine must be awake, online and running Scout when a scheduled scan runs.
No missed-run recovery guarantee is provided. Source checkpoints advance only
after a successfully covered interval; a later scan is capped at seven days.
Previously stored work remains even if its source activity is older.

There is no polling dispatcher or nested automation. One worker performs the
Microsoft 365 scan itself. PR collectors run locally. The external portal cannot
directly start Scout in this version: Scan for updates starts PR collection and
queues Microsoft 365 work. Run now in Scout performs a full on-demand scan.
Queued is not the same as running. Daily schedule and full manual scan use the
same worker instructions in Scan.Worker.txt.

SCANS AND RETENTION
Scans use per-source checkpoints and processed-entity receipts to reduce repeat
triage. Metadata reads are still needed to discover changes. Partial failures
leave the successful checkpoint unchanged and report gaps rather than inventing
complete coverage. Important email is paginated; 50 is a request page size, not
a total mailbox scan cap.

Existing work is retained and deduplicated. Only the user marks it done/dismissed.
Known document items, including closed ones, are not rescanned for new comments.
Incident-notification exclusions apply across the briefing. Current Teams scope
is chats, not meetings or channels. Dedicated bug tracking is not implemented.

WORK AND CONVERSATIONS
Choose Work on this, give a clear task, select the checkout/handler and review the
exact preview. Only explicit approval starts the native Copilot session. Buddy
delivers the approved first prompt once, then the conversation belongs to native
Copilot. Continue conversation focuses/reopens the same linked session without
replaying its original task.

Normal native tools/MCP servers remain available. Native permission mode uses
interactive consent prompts. Explicit Full tools is a separate per-task choice
and is not the default for new pilot users. No global allow-all settings or credit
limits are applied. Provider quotas and model availability still apply.

Approving local work does not approve publishing. Sending messages, commenting,
resolving PR threads, pushing or merging requires a separate exact preview and
explicit user approval. These agent instructions are best-effort, not a sandbox
or an enforcement guarantee against every write. Follow organization policies.

If a runtime outlives its terminal, Buddy reports it rather than opening a duplicate
or killing it automatically. Closing a terminal does not mark the work complete.
Do not delete session state to "fix" an error without understanding what is active.
Buddy terminal hosts clean up descendants that inherit their Windows job. Windows
app execution aliases can escape that job, so automatic cleanup on tab closure is
not guaranteed. Enter /exit in Copilot's chat input and wait for shutdown before
closing the tab, so it can flush recent work. Any remaining runtime blocks
Continue and Done until explicitly approved cleanup.
Other sessions are not adopted and saved history is retained.

PRIVATE STATE AND UPDATES
Portal state: %LOCALAPPDATA%\MyBuddy\portal (Windows-user DPAPI).
Terminal bindings: %LOCALAPPDATA%\MyBuddy\terminals.
Task state and native history: paths in your personal agent configuration.
DPAPI is an at-rest protection, not permission to store prohibited content.
Keep protected documents at their source and use authorized grounded reads.

Use one installed Buddy folder per Windows account for this pilot. A second copy
must not attach to or replace another copy's live portal. Close your own portal
normally before moving/upgrading it. This release is first-install tooling, not
an automatic updater or uninstaller; retain your private configuration and state.

DISTRIBUTION
Do not send your installed folder after setup. It contains personal config and
generated Scout instructions. Share this clean source repository, or create a
clean release ZIP using Export-Buddy.ps1, which uses an explicit source allowlist.
No media, account configuration, automation identifiers, tokens, caches, or private
state should be committed to a team repository. The release manifest provides
file hashes for integrity checking; it is not a code-signing trust guarantee.

RELEASE LIMITATIONS
This is an internal engineering pilot. No hosted deployment, EXE installer,
automatic update channel or centrally managed multi-user service is included.
The existing integration limitations are not solved by packaging.
